Schools, we were going crazy with schools. We were
building everywhere. You'll notice the schools
are named after people, named after the early
teachers in the community or the school board, but
we were building as fast as we could get them up
because the community was growing that way.
Let's see, what else happened? Fabulous,
fabulous.
I'll have to think on it. We'll go on and on. If I
think of something, I'll jump back at you. Okay.
Pasadena has had a reputation for many years for
being a white community. Has the Palmoy family
seen or experienced any changes in race relations
in Pasadena?
Well, in not the... typical sense that you would
think of race relations in Pasadena. Pasadena, in
its early days, was, like I said, a settlement of
farmers. And you had Spanish Mexicans living in
the area at the time being basically dirt farmers
themselves. And they worked with the local
farmers. And so there's always been a contingency
of Mexicans in, or Spanish surname, as it were, in
the community of Pasadena. They've never been
very visible. They have very well hung to
themselves. Most of their... They lived off of...
They lived out in then the country, but as the
community grew, they concentrated somewhat
around the Red Bluff area. I know in the 40s, late
40s, early 50s, when I was involved in the church
myself, we had a mission. We established a Spanish
mission out on... and I'd go out there and do the
little programs and we'd do Christmas programs
with them and things like that. So there was an
interaction between them, but there was still a
separation. Went to school with some Spanish
people. I knew them, they knew me, we talked, but we
didn't socialize together. Most people think in
terms of race relations as being black relations.
That didn't exist in Pasadena, never has. I have a
listing of people who signed up for the draft in
1914 in Pasadena. And there were two blacks out of
about 35 people, Negro. I assumed they would be
Negro farmers. That was probably the highest
percentages of blacks that we had ever had in the
community. In 1960, Pasadena's population was
89,000. we had 45 blacks. In 1980, passing the
population is 112,000. We have 950 blacks within
the community. So there
is, blacks are not visible in the community.
First, there's not being enough of them. So we
never really had that as a race issue. We are having
a race, Well, you go back to the Hispanics and
finish that side off. Hispanics
have always had their community, as I have said.
And as the integration, both legal and illegal,
from Mexico accelerated in the last 10 years in
Mexico, particularly during the boom days of the
last five years. They found a section over here in
Pasadena. The two main concentrations of
Hispanics in Harris County are on the east side of
downtown Houston, one being in the eastern
section of Houston and one being the relatively
small barrio in the Pasadena area. They're used,
they work in industry. basically non-managerial
levels because most of them are not educated. They
go through the school systems. But they have, and
they have in the local community, begun to take
some roles and responsibilities. We have quite a
few Spanish doctors, attorneys. I don't know
about the CPAs. We've had from time to time some
Spanish involved in government. Spanish,
probably proportionally-wise, a balanced
percentage in civic organizations. Never
really been, there's never been a racial clash in
Pasadena, whether it be Spanish, Negro, Black, or
a problem today, I think it is a problem, or the
growing concern is the Asian community in
Pasadena. Pasadena is one of us, and it's sort of a
settlement area for the Asian. It's felt strongly
in the school district. the school district has
had an increase in Asians in the last, well, I don't
know what it is here in the 80s, but it's something
like it doubles every year as far as the Asian
population. The Spanish population has grown
significantly, or
has grown significantly, but it's not as much of a
teaching problem as it is for the Asians in the
community. as it appears to be typical with the
race, are very industrious, hard-working
people. I think every 7-Eleven in town is all about
Asian. They've got businesses in the community.
There's no confrontation with them. So there's
no, there's been no problems. It's,
each have their own area, but there's no conflict
over it. How did your parents and family feel about
blacks? And did they support the Brown versus
Board decision in 1954? Well, when I was in
college, I was asked by a black, you know, well,
gee, you don't appear to be, you know, the
prejudiced type person I'd expect from the South.
I said, well, until I got to college, I didn't know
what black was. Said earlier, there really wasn't
any in Pasadena. Not until the late 50s, when there
became some nationwide agitation, was there any
visibility of blacks in Houston. And that was the
only place I had contact with, was Blacksville.
I'd go into Houston.
Never had the discussion with my parents, or my
grandparents, or my great grandparents.
I've never had a discussion with any of them about
blacks because we never had that type of contact.
So you wouldn't talk about, well, how do you feel
about Russians if you've never met a Russian? Or
how do you feel about
someone from Afghanistan? It just wasn't a
question that was raised in the test and discussed
and talked about. The KKK is located in Pasadena.
But it's not the Pasadena blacks that they're
working against, because there are so few blacks.
The only agitations that KKK causes are all
outside of Pasadena. It just happens to be an
available building in Pasadena. Probably a lot of
the guys work out of the industrial plants, and so a
convenient place. The thing is open, I think, once
a month. And when they take on the Asians, as
they've done, down what was tripping boats and all
that stuff. It's always outside of the community.
For Brown versus Board of Education, again,
that's another thing that really didn't have an
application in the community because we didn't
have separate facilities. If there was a black in
the community, it went to Pasadena. If there was
brown in the community, if there were yellow,
whatever your color was, you went to the schools.
We didn't have any buses. The buses only went one
way. It was from your home to the school. And we did,
you know, there was only up until, let's see, there
was only one high school until the late 50s. I think
57 was probably the first year for South Houston.
Rayburn didn't come until the 60s. Elementary
schools was in your neighborhood, and they're
still strong of Asher and Oberlin. That's where
you go. So we've missed out on all the fun. busing,
riots in the street, those types of things.
Houston didn't have those problems in the early
days of the turmoil as it were. The blacks in
Houston reported that they had their own
lifestyles, their own way of life, like the Asians
do now in Houston. And they weren't looking for any
additional territory. They were entitled to it,
but they weren't really looking for it. So they
sent blacks in from out of town. I wrote the
headlines in the city, or in the newspapers, was
that the local blacks met the out-of-town blacks
at the bus station and said, you get back on the bus.
They said, look, we had some agitation in Houston,
but it was, like I said, that was the only contact
that I had with it, and this is well into the 60s when
we were separated.
Was Pasadena ever affected by segregation,
busing, or the civil rights issues? I seem to
anticipate that question. No. I don't think I can
really elaborate much more than that. I'm sure
that there's an undertone. I know Pasadena has a
reputation of being a lowly white town.
Supposedly, you didn't, if you were black, you
didn't stay in Pasadena after dark. South Houston
had a sign over there. There were a thing that said,
blacks don't let the sun set on you. But South
Houston, when George Christie moved his circus
there in the late 20s, he said, hey, I've got all
sorts of people working for me. That sign comes
down, or I don't move in the town. The sign came
down. Now, perhaps the attitude remained, but it
was sort of an unwritten law. That was the case.
I know even today, blacks feel that way about
Pasadena. But we've got blacks in the police
department. We've got blacks working in
businesses all over town.
We're still perceived that way, and I'm sure it
exists, but it's not on any covert, noticeable
level. We don't talk about it in meetings. Nobody
makes any jokes about it. It's not the pun or
anything. We talk about Aggies.
Have racial attitudes changed over the four
generations of the Pomeroy family? I'm sure that
attitudes have changed, and they've changed
because of enlightenment. If you didn't have
contact with these people, then you couldn't form
an opinion. And any opinion you had is probably
something you either heard or you read about. As
you become involved with these people, I think
probably your first reaction is, you know, these
are strange people. I don't like this. Because
this is an extremely conservative community.
It's still got very much of worrying roots. We're
still perceived as a redneck type community. But
we've been placed in contact with a few more
blacks. Our children are going to school with a few
blacks. And these aren't agitation experiences.
These are just students in the classroom. It's
like when I went to school with the Mexicans, there
was no agitation. They were decent people. And as
you get to meet more and more, your feelings
towards them improve, change, accept them more,
and I'm confident that we're much more tolerant,
much more enlightened than we were back in 1900,
and I'm sure we have a ways to go. Has the Pomeroy
family ever been involved in the government of
Pasadena? Pomeroy's per se, as Pomeroy's, none.
The extended family, as I've mentioned earlier,
yes, we were involved. It's sort of like a, you
know, well, you take care of that area, and we'll
take care of this area of the community. The
Williams side of the family were involved in
politics with Everett Williams. He was the city
councilman, the city commissioner at the time,
head of the water department. Clyde McMaster made
his contribution as mayor for eight years. My
grandfather... When
they were building,
one of the schools here in town, Howard Telps,
actually senior, the father that Howard Telps and
most of us think of today, was the contractor. He
was living in the rented room in my grandfather's
house. My grandfather said, gee, one day I'd like
to be mayor of Pasadena. And Telps wrote a book, and
it's in the book, okay? John was the type of person
that he wasn't going to stop the politics. He had to
work on his job, and when he got through with his
job, then he would do his community service. And
the first one was the church. They never quite got
to government, which is fine. I've been tempted
myself to be involved in government, but I've
decided there's other areas I can make
contributions. I don't need to... kiss babies and
shake a lot of hands. How has the women's role in
Pasadena society changed throughout your
family's history? Well, women have always played
a fairly significant role in the community. With
the farming beginnings, there was no
differentiation. If you had a pair of hands, you
were working. You were a husband, you were a wife,
you were children. It didn't make any difference.
As long as you could hold your diapers up, you went
out and did a job. The first postmaster in Pasadena
was a male. The second postmaster was female. And
in the first 30 years, the postmaster mistresses
in Pasadena, most of them were female. The first
one of those was also the first woman attorney. She
went off, got her education, came back, was an
attorney in town. This is all pre-1930. My
great-grandmother, Anna Louise Fonroy, was an
agitator type or something, I guess you could say.
And when Pasadena incorporated in 1924,
decided we needed some city services and stuff, we
made the mistake of incorporating Houston Light
and Power Facility on the Houston Ship Channel,
and crowned the final Houston Ship Channel. Well,
this just infuriated Houston, because Houston
spent all this time promoting a ship channel, and
here's these little towns coming in, grab ahold of
all this big tax base. So they sued Pasadena. They
got the Secretary of State to turn state attorney
to sue Pasadena. I don't know what the grounds were
particularly. But anyway, Pasadena got scared
off and said, OK, well, we can't afford to fight the
big state and the big city. So they backed off and
incorporated the following year. Houston got to
thinking, well, I bet those rabble-rousers are
just guessing. Those rabble-rousers are going to
do it again. So why don't we incorporate them?
They're not incorporating them. Annex them. So
they jumped out and annexed Harrisburg, which is
between Houston and Pasadena. They started
looking at territory outside of there. And my
great-grandmother said, no, we don't want to be
part of Houston. We want to be Pasadena. So she
organized a local community, and they put up a
fight in the end of Houston, called the City
Council. She went and talked to Sinclair, now
Arco, And they said, no, you know, we agree with
you. So they provided the attorneys for Pasadena,
and we went into Houston and fought off their
annexation attempts, and turned right around and
reincorporated. So in 1929, we were incorporated
as a city, and we've continued as a city since then.
First legal, I'm sorry, first medical profession
started in Pasadena in 1937. Prior to that, we'd
have a doctor, and when he would die, another
doctor would come into town, and that type of
thing. In 1937, Dr. Edward Connors moved to
Pasadena, built a hospital, which was the first
hospital in the area, and started bringing some of
his buddies in from Oklahoma, where he graduated
from medical school. And it was just like, no
sooner they got in, they got drafted. So we had
doctors coming in and doctors coming out, And
somebody had a really great idea and brought in a
lady doctor about 1939. Of course, she didn't get
drafted. So the first female doctor that passed in
was about 1939. She was here for like about five
years and then left. And in the chiropractic
profession, I think they had passed in in 1942 and
two of them were female chiropractors. And one of
them, Dr. Sally Allen, is still here. She's still
in business. The doctors that were here
originally are now retired, but Sally Allen is
still a chiropractor. Education, the first, it
was quite a few years before we had a lady on the
board of education, board of directors or
whatever it is, and I'm not sure we have had any
females other than that, but in the education
business, they have been involved, of course, as
teachers, 99%. The early teachers were women. I
said, I think we married half of them in the Palmer
family. No sooner than the schools got started
than the PTA got started. And passing the PTA or its
roots is probably Well, it is the oldest civic
organization in the community. And it was formed
by the ladies. It was run by the ladies. You don't
have a few men, but it's usually the mothers that
are concerned. It's still a dynamic force shaping
the education of the community. Business-wise,
they were involved, as I said, equally with men.
There was no real discrimination.
A few of them, although their husbands worked with
them, it was known as their business. Betty
Mitchell is one example. Her father, Walter
Williams, started a grocery store and a dry goods.
And his daughter, Betty, married Mr. Mitchell,
and she ran the store. He opened up another store
and said, no, I'll take it back. No, no, no. It was
their children that started opening that grocery
store. But she was known as Betty Mitchelson. We
had several ladies that had clothing stores in
town. So they were fairly visible. They were
fairly involved. When it came to industry,
however, they were not involved. That was a men's
business. And it hadn't been until the last 10
years or so that they had really gotten involved. I
think it's sort of... hysterical or funny or
ironic or something, but I was talking to a savings
owner, a company president a couple years ago, and
he says, well, we were talking about Pasadena
having the second highest per household income in
the state of Texas. We've got a strong industry
base over here. They pay good. There's good
overtime. We've always had a lot of two-member
family employment. And he'll say, Well, you take
one situation I was dealing with the other day. The
husband is an insurance salesman. He's making
about $15,000. Now, his wife, she's a welder. She
works out at Sheff. She makes $25,000 a year. So I'm
sure we've had some domestic problems over the
wife making more money, but they pretty well carry
their weight. Oh, one more thing was the city
government We have had several ladies serve on
city council, and we've got a bunch running now.
They've gotten more and more excited. They're
going to come out of the school system. So it's
evolving, and I think they, from my perspective,
are getting a good fair share.
Pasadena has changed tremendously over the
years, but it seems to be impossible in changing
its Wild West image. Is Pasadena really the Wild
West? Well, no, we're east of Houston, actually.
Maybe we're the Wild East. Now, Pasadena has the
image from our local major entertainment
attraction, which is Gillies.
And Mickey Gilear, when he's on national TV, and
they say, and Mickey Gilear from Houston, he says,
no, I'm from Pasadena. He's proud of it, which is a
blessing on one side and a problem on the other
side. Because no place else on national TV does
someone stand up as a conductor of a symphony, as a
movie star, as a president of the United States,
and say, I'm from Pasadena. So the image
nationally people have of Pasadena is Gillies.
It's just marketing. They know how to market their
product, and the rest of the community hasn't
marketed its product. As I like to point out, maybe
2,000, maybe 5,000 people in Pasadena go to
Gillies. There's 120 other thousand people in
Pasadena. What do they do? More of them go to
church, but nationally we're not going for our
churches. More of them go to school. We've got a
good reputation. We have much less that go to our
new Philharmonic Orchestra, but we're hoping to
build that. We've had a little theater that's been
in existence long before Gillies, but they
haven't been able to market themselves as well. So
you only have maybe 1,000 people that have ever
gone to a little theater versus the 2,000 a weekend
that goes to Gillies.
One of the things that people point to as our Wally
West image is our alter ego horses, our pickup
trucks. Well, we've got pickup trucks. You're
right about that. But we don't have horses in the
back of our pickup trucks. What we've got is we've
got welding equipment. We've got construction
tools. We've got a trailer hitch we put our boat on
or mulch for our gardens. There's a lot of things we
use our pickup trucks for. I would be surprised if
the average in Pasadena is not a two-car family.
Maybe a three-car family. And the wife, as is
typical, has the nice sedan or maybe the station
wagon because she holds the children with her. And
then the husband, because he goes into industry,
well, there's two things. You don't take a nice car
out of the industry because, you know, the
chemicals from the air were rusted on the spot. So
you take a work vehicle. And that works not only to
get you there, but also puts you around the house.
Because we're a lot of do-it-ourselvers around
here. Do-it-yourself is very good. I finally had
to borrow a trailer. I don't have a pickup truck,
but I need to haul things around. So we've got that
problem, yes. And it's a matter, we've got to work
on promoting the community, the family time, the
churches, the education, the residential areas.
People are amazed, constantly, at the
residential areas in Pasadena. If you go into Deer
Park, and you go down to Clear Lake, and you go to
some of the other areas, you've got a lot of major
tract builders, U.S. owned general homes,
violence, and all of those, which are basically
Cooke's Cove type homes. Pasadena, you have
tremendous amount of custom built homes. You've
got a few local builders, and they build only in the
Pasadena market. There's not that, they don't use
a total of 10 home plans. You probably have 2,000
different home styles out of the 10,000 homes we
have in Pasadena. Newer areas are just a collage of
architectural styles. You don't have a
subdivision of Cape Cod. You've got a street
that's got a pictorial, and a Cape Cod, and a
colonial, and a modern, and a you name it, it's
there. We even have long cabins in Pasadena.
You've got an image of being a redneck, a hard hat, a
long neck community. Well, we do. Pittsburgh does
too. I was listening to a news report the other day,
and they said, yeah, Pittsburgh was all upset
about being called a redneck city. Redneck is, you
know, you started out with the little sun on your
neck because you worked outside. Most of the
people in Pasadena, well, take that back. The last
couple of years, the last couple of decades, the
census report shows that outside construction,
manual labor is a significantly small, is an
insignificantly small. Well, however it works,
it's a small number. Most of our people are
managers out in the plants. We've got so much
automation, most everybody's a supervisor or
manager. And they're pulling down $35,000,
$50,000, $65,000 a year. We've got the largest
single employer within the state of New Mexico,
and it's the school district. Second largest, I
think, is in the conversation.
Maybe through the government. The shift from a
redneck to a person who's unwilling to change and
accept new ideas, I think it's basically unfair on
the community. I don't see ourselves as not being
open to change and being stuck in the old dog-run
past. The average age in Pasadena is about 27. So
that means that you've got a lot of young people in
the community. And they're open, one with
television, one with, I think everyone in high
school now has a car. Mobility in the community, I
think it's an unfair label for the community. I
think our biggest problem is that we're not
marketing what we have, both to people in the
community, so they're proud of their community,
and to people outside. We've invited lately some
of the media in the community to say, hey, let's
show you things that you're not running in town
filming and leaving, because the KKK are meeting,
or city governments handed this big squabble, or a
big narcotics fight. So let's show you some of the
things about what really is the essence, what we
feel the essence of.
What has been your role in improving Pasadena's
cultural image?
Well, I can characterize my participation, I
guess, in two different ways. I was introduced a
while back at a speech I was giving on medical
history in Pasadena. Dr. Parker Williams, the
president of St. Justin College South, got up
there and said, I'd like to introduce David
Pommoy, a has-been. He has been, I think,
everything. My wife, on the other hand,
characterizes me half-jokingly and very
seriously as a civic junkie. I just can't say no.
And if someone says, gee, David, I think what we
need in Pasadena is this and such, key words, need
in Pasadena. I'll say, right, and here, I'll do
this. So I've suffered from the inability to say
no, and it has gotten me into a fair amount of
trouble. I've been involved in promoting what I
call the hometown image of Pasadena. As I had said
earlier, so many people came to Pasadena, I'm
going to make the money, I'm going to leave, but
they're still here. In fact, I've talked to
numerous ones of the third generation, that
that's what they were going to do. Come and go, and
now they have children, and their children are now
in Pasadena growing up. And when I say, well, you
know, did I mention some historical fact? Well,
they had no idea. So I decided, for whatever
reason, that promoting the history of the
community pull out the facts and say, hey, this is
something to be proud of. This is our roots. You
know, this is where we started over here was an
artesian well, and there was nothing over here at
all. And what the community is, is what the people
have made it today. We're sort of in a, you're
running down the highway, you've got lead
vehicle, you've got rear vehicle, you're in the
middle, you call the rocket ship. Well, we're sort
of in the rocket ship. We've got Houston, And when
you think of a historical community,
Williamsburg or something like that, they're
hundreds of years old. Galveston is almost 200
years old. And they have grown up, and they got to a
point, and they started appreciating their
history, and they started developing their
culture. And then they've gone through another
generation of that. When Pasadena, 1895,
started, we didn't really get going until 1937.
We've just really started. We haven't built the
historical structures in this community We're
built in Williamsburg. We're built in Houston.
Houston is 100 years old. The houses that you see,
they're preserving. We're built. We haven't
gotten to that point. You look at their evolution,
and you go through survival, and when you get into
the next generation, then they want something a
little bit better. Capacity has just now gotten to
that point. And I'm trying to say, okay, we've gone
through that cycle. Look at our history. Take some
pride in where we've come from. And we're also now
ready to take a little more responsibility toward
that. quality of life in our community. Our own
cultural, entertainment, social needs need to be
satisfied within the community. No longer are we
going to Houston for that good restaurant.
Because I take my wife out a couple times a week. I
don't want to go to Houston. I want to go to
Pasadena. And I don't want to eat at the same
hamburger place every time. So I'm pleased to see
that we're beginning to do it. On the historical
side, I got involved in the Historical Society and
helped set up the historical collection that
passed in the public library so that that material
is available for the public to come in and look at.
Here to fall, if the school should assign to their
students, you know, do a history paper, there was
no place for them to go. They might go interview
someone they'd heard about, but that was the
extent of it. There was no places they could look at
pictures, they could listen to history tapes,
which we haven't done yet, by the way, but we're
going to. There was no access to this material.
Also, the early historical materials that were
collected, like I said, there's a palm oil
collection that I had. There was a historical
society. There was an early settlers
association, which I'm also a member of,
collection. And then there was another
collection over here. And they each kept them
private unto themselves because, you know, I
don't like someone's out there in that other
group. And I might as well let them look at my stuff.
So by moving to the library, we had created a
neutral territory. The historical collection
there in the two years it's existed has quadrupled
in size. If I can ever get mine organized, I'm going
to get mine over there too. But I've been involved
in the historical thing. I'm culturally
involved. I'm through the chamber on the Cultural
Affairs Committee. I was one of the original
directors for passing a program on it, which then
became a member of the Cultural Affairs
Committee. The Cultural Affairs Committee was
the first pulling together of the various
culturally oriented activities in the
community. We have Pasadena Art League is a
member, we have the Pasadena City Jazz Ballet is a
member, the Pasadena Philharmonic, Pasadena
Little Theater, there's several other groups, I
can't remember the names, that are involved. And
now we've got such a place for us to talk about. This
is where the Little Theater tells the
Philharmonic, you know, well gee, we've been here
a long time, but we don't have the support you've
got, would you help us build our membership? So we
can work back and forth with each other. As an
outgrowth of that, we're in the process of
forming, we're not sure what we're going to call
it, but it'll be something like the Pasadena
Cultural Arts Council, which will be a non-profit
organization so you can make donations and take it
as a tax deduction, where we can funnel, we can hire
full-time coordinator so that it's not going to
have to depend upon volunteers, that there's a
central place that you can call to get program
information, ticket information, this type of
thing. Pasadena Little Theater just recently
lost their structure for theaters on fire. And so
they're looking for a new place. And we said, well,
look, if you're going to look for a new place, why
don't you get something large enough to
accommodate some of these other activities that
take. Philharmonic needs a place. The Art League
needs a place to show their stuff. So we decided we
would try to find some sort of cultural center that
we could come up with. And one of the other hats I
wear, one of the other groups involved in the
Cultural Affairs Committee is the Historical
Society. And they said, hey, let's save some
historical building and what can we use? And
someone came up with, well, it's not that old. The
Capitan Theater is one of the last of the Art Deco
brand movie theaters left. It was built right at
the end. The guy that built it wasn't reading his
paper, and he didn't know the television was
coming. And he put all this money into a really nice
place, really, as far as Pasadena, boy, it's one of
the outstanding architectural structures. So we
thought, well, let's put together all these
various interests and see if we can acquire that
structure, renovate it, bring it back to its
former glory, and provide it with a home for all
these various groups. We can also attract in a
group from the Texas Ballet Group. I forgot their
full name, but anyway, they're an accredited
state ballet group out of Deer Park. And have them
in there, because they're looking for a place. And
there's several musical groups down in Clear
Lake. I'm sure that if we could provide them with a
home, we'd then concentrate it and provide a
central source for the local community to go. And
it's got all this great attributes, easy access,
existing structure, bringing us identity. And we
can go after historical funds, cultural funds.
They're all over the place. And then we can start
programs where school children can go and
participate in a full philharmonic and get
musical appreciation on a formal level,
teaching.
I buy some artwork from some local dealers.
those types of things. One other,
I don't know, cultural, let me expand it slightly.
Again, I mentioned quality of life in the
community. Tom was involved. My wife is currently
in retirement, but was the original director of
the Pasadena Beautification Commission. And
Pasadena is in great need of beautification. I
think that adds to the community's image, quality
of life, and cultural appreciation. Because if
you live in a Japanese city, it's really hard to sit
there and appreciate something, take pride in it.
Looking back over the four generations of the
Pomeroy family, how is your life different than
that of your ancestors, and do you have the impact
on Pasadena that they once had? Well, I move a lot
faster than my ancestors. They didn't have a lot of
places to run around. They didn't have a car. I got
that. I don't know if I have more of an antithyroid
than they did or not. But there's more things to get
involved in. But on the other hand, the impact I can
have on this community, even if I dedicated 150% of
my time to it, would be much less than the impact
that my ancestors had on the community simply
because of the numbers of people involved. They
were one family out of 16, max one out of six. So the
numbers there, if you did something, you affected
quite a bit of people. In Pasadena, if I'm elected
to be chairman of another committee, that's not
going to affect a lot of people. I think
personally, though, that I been instrumental in a
lot of things that are, I guess you'd say subtle,
that will have long-range implications on the
community. I've been involved very much in
beautification, not only through my wife, with
her involvement, but also personally in some of
the things that I have done, been involved in
historically. But I think that I, and I'll take
credit, I think I've gotten it out of the old
blue-haired lady tennis shoe syndrome into
something now a little more public and with a lot
broader support. I'd like a few more members, but
anyway, people are more aware of the history.
We've got more things published.
I'm not involved in the educational aspect
because I don't have children involved in the
school district. Then they only had a couple of
choices. There was work, church, and school. Work
was during the day, and church was on Sunday, and
the evenings was for school. My grandfather was
also a member of the Pasadena Literary Society, as
was my great-grandfather. He obviously had a book
reading club or something back then. I don't have
time for that. I'm sure we have that or a survivor
organization. I'm involved in many more things
than they were, but there are many more things to
do.
I hope that my involvement has some influence on
the direction of the community because I feel
strongly about where I would like to see the
community go. I feel also that anyone living in a
community has an obligation to it. So I'm doing
what I think to be my obligation.
Was there, did I, did I answer the question or is
there a little more, did I get a feel from something
like that, the thrust on it? Well, I guess, let me
say, life has changed from a very slow, easygoing,
hand-to-mouth type. This is the way it's changed
everywhere. We have put to bed the strawberries.
Literally. Literally. The only strawberry
gardens that exist now are strawberry farms and
strawberry pots and people's back patios.
And it's going to keep growing. Pasadena has not an
unlimited future. You've got Houston on one side,
you've got Galveston Bay on the other, and you have
Houston on the south side with a clear lake. So
we're locked into our maximum expansion. We're
now at 125. The most people that I project that
Pasadena can ever have is with reasonable
density, unless we go to Apartment City. It's
about 225, maybe 250,000 people. So we're halfway
there. And probably, with commercial
developments in the area, we're going to hit maybe
200,000. That's it. So I think our challenge today
is not survival and setting up basic
institutions, but is to pick and choose among the
thousands that are available. that to find those
that best represent what we want our community to
be in the future. Because now is the time to work on
it. If we want to be strictly a bedroom community,
build bunches of houses. If we want to be a
self-contained community, and really 200,000 is
too much for one self-contained town. You're
really talking maybe 50,000 ought to be a
self-contained unit. So we've gone beyond that.
But if we want to be a self-contained town, It
provides employment base, which is like
entertainment, recreation, retail, medical,
all of those types of things. And we have to focus in
on that type of thing because we don't have that
much land left. We've got more of a mix racially in
the community. We will have a mix. We've got to
address those issues. We've avoided the issue of
transportation in our community. which has, I'm
sure, contributed to the fact that we haven't had
more non-whites in the community. We've got to
address that because the community is going to
need it. Energy is going to be required. Traffic is
going to be required. We're very fortunate in
being able to get around in the community with the
ease that we do. But it still takes 15 to 20 minutes
to get to our house. And for the distance involved,
that takes a little bit of time. I think we've taken
charge. I said earlier that we were a
do-it-yourself. We're also do-it-yourself,
many other things, and maybe that's the character
of Pasadena that makes it very positive, is that
we've realized that we've got a crime problem, as
every other city has. got involved and said, okay,
let's do something about it. I was involved with
the original Hawaiian Prevention Council, I'm
pleased to say. I did not put anywhere near the
amount of work that a couple dozen people had
really made that thing exist. We now have a
neighborhood watch program. And there's some
people involved that have dedicated their lives
to that one area. And they have done a superb job as
far as impacting upon the quality of the life of our
community, because we are a very safe community.
In Houston, there's a crime prevented. Why most
times it goes unrecorded, there's an irons in the
crime. And the police on a good day, weekday,
during the day, not the week, weekends don't
count. There's no relationship weekends. It
takes a minimum of 30 minutes to get to you. That's
after they have answered the call with you being on
hold for 15. in Pasadena, five max 10 minutes there
at your door. And that's Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Friday, Saturday night. Doesn't make
any difference. If you used to go on Saturday
night, and they sure did, and bleeding right
there, and I suspect unless the camera crews are
there, it'll take them a while to get to you. I live
in a totally different world than my ancestors. I
can see that in my father. There are things going on
out there that I just assume stay where I am, but not
get involved. And that's why they have got He has
not really gotten involved, he's just sort of
faded out. Because the city's moving too fast for
him. He's got his businesses. Palmory's more well
now, Palmory Drilling, which is really fun with a
lot of gas. Our businesses are outside the
community. We don't sell a product in the
community. We don't solicit business from the
community. This is our home. We're proud of it.
We're trying to make it a community that we can live
in, play in, shop in.
So
the cultural movement within the last couple of
years has been another thing where people say,
hey, this is a need. One person, Rick Undersea, has
said, hey, I'm going to fill up. We found some more
people. He took the lead. He's doing it himself.
We're beginning to sort of take charge. I'm glad to
see that. I don't know what our voting
participation has been. I'd like to see a little
more of that. But at least on an individual basis,
more and more people are beginning to say, hey,
this is my community. I'm going to do something
about it. Thank you very much. Oh, I can go on
forever. Thank you.